# Meeting Minutes for May 7, 2020

## Agenda

### General

1. Do we want rotate who take the TSC meeting minutes?

Thomas is fine to do it for the initial phase but would like to rotate when we
are fully set up as TSC.

2. How should we publish the minutes? Via Pull request?

Sebastian: Let use pull request with CODEOWNERS so all TSC members get notified
and then at least one person needs to approve the minutes. GitHub offers more
advanced options.

TSC agrees on using PR to review meetings minutes - PR can be merged if at least
one other TSC member approves.

3. In which timeframe would the TSC have the minutes published?

TSC agrees to publish minutes ideally in the same week or at the latest 5
business days after the meeting.

4. Do we want to use the GitHub issues to track action points?

Martin: It may take some time for action items to be resolved, we need an easy
way to track them.

TSC agrees to use GitHub issues for tracking TSC action items.

5. Repository set up

Thomas: I have cleaned up ort-governance and will make PR for TSC to review the
minutes.

6. When to announce TSC meetings and via which channels?

When:

Sebastian: prefers at least 1 week, ideally 10 business days / 2 weeks in
advance.

Channel:

Martin: Let's use Slack for announcements .
Thomas: TSC members get a meeting invite on their prefered email address.
Announce on OSS Review Tooling group mailing list?
Sebastian: Let's announce on tooling mailing list to encourage people to join
ORT besides Slack.

TSC agrees on announcing TSC mettings 10 business days in advance, and announce
meetings on Slack and the tooling mailing list.

7. Make ORT Govenance repository public? 

Thomas: We have to make the repo public per our charter. What are the criteria
to go public?
Sebastian: Go public ASAP.

TSC agrees to go public ASAP even when PRs with meeting minutes are still being
finalized.

Action point for Thomas:
Make the ort-governance repository public ASAP (when done writing out meeting
minutes).

8. Record meetings for purpose of creation of meeting minutes

TSC agrees to record meetings for the purpose of easing writing minutes but
recordings should be deleted the moment the meetings are published. Recordings
are only made available to TSC members.
Non TSC members will need to be made aware meeting is being recorded for privacy
compliance reasons.

Action point for Thomas:
To update README to state meetings may be recorded and investigate how to record
and share recordings using Zoom.

### Technical

1. Discuss `licenses.yml`

Sebastian: `licenses.yml` as committed seems to only contain classifications of
licenses. Sounds like a SPDX license list.

Martin: In the code it's called license configurations, maybe we use use that as
a name for the file.

Sebastian: Naming is not clear, classification vs. categorization

Thomas: We use the name licenses.yml as we planned always to add more things
like license mappings, obligations and other license metadata.

Dicussions moves on to use of `sets` in licenses.yml.

Frank: License sets are like tagging - way to add additional properties to the
licenses.

Martin: Change the name from sets to tags.

Sebastian: Better labels, categories but different topic. First we need to agree
on higher level naming: license-classifications.yml or license-obligations.yml.

Sebastian: File contains legal interpretations, it is not technical config file
as we have the fields to include in notices and offer source offer.

TSC agrees to rename class to 'License Classifications' and the file itself to
license-classifications.yml

Action items for Sebastian:
- Work on a proposal for renaming `sets`
- Common fields that should be part of 'License Classifications'

2. Move SPDX mapping to .yml file so it can be shared with other project

Sebastian proposes to move the mapping in SpdxDeclaredLicenseMapping.kt to a
seperate YAML file so it potentially can be re-used by other OSS projects.
Will submit an issue and discuss further on Slack.

### Next Meeting

For next TSC meeting let's discuss 90 day roadmap - what are the bigger ticket
items?

TSC agrees to schedule the next TSC meeitng on June 4th, 2020 at 10 AM CEST.
