# Meeting Minutes for October 23, 2020

## Attendees

@mnonnenmacher, @tsteenbe, @sschuberth

## Agenda

- Review of last meeting's action items (see open issues at https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues)
- ORT performance logging (log performance relevant information)
- Roadmaps from HERE and Bosch (what are we planning to work on in the next 90 days)
- Committers from Bosch
- Making ORT binary releases / version numbering
  - Where to put generic libraries (like spdx-utils, clearly-defined etc.)
- Open-sourcing HERE's curation data
- Cleanup of remote branches
- Align the behavior of reporters (display of issues, excludes etc.) -> DRY principle
- Next TSC meeting

### General

Thomas is on parental leave (until January 9, 2021)

### Technical

#### ORT performance logging

- Use Splunk to parse / analyze the regular log statements printed to the console.
- Look into using a [custom](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/customloglevels.html) "PERFORMANCE" log level (between "INFO" and "DEBUG").
- Analyzer results currently are not cached; maybe hash package manager files / output of something like "./gradlew dependencies" as a lookup key

#### Roadmaps from HERE and Bosch

- HERE: Performance
- Bosch
  - Remote scanners (FOSSID, ScanOSS)
    - think about sync vs async scanners instead of local vs remote scanners
    - just triggering remote scn async'ly probably is enough to beging with; gathering results can could later
  - Advisor (adaptor for our current commercial provider, then add new providers to compare data quality to)
  - PDF reporting (AsciiDoc template -> HTML -> PDF), AsciiDoctorJ (?) integration
  - Azure DevOps infrastructure for running ORT

#### Committers from Bosch

- Bump Oliver Heger and Marcel Bochtler up from contributors to committers
  - In GitHub-speak they will stay "Outside Collaborators", but get "Write" instead of "Triage" permissions
  - @sschuberth on-boards them / gives "behavior" guidance
  - TSC agrees unanimously
  
#### Making ORT binary releases / Where to put generic libraries

- Automatically publish release on push of Git tag (of certain pattern)
  - Look for ready-made GitHub Action to do that for Gradle projects
- Candidates for splitting out libraries: clearly-defined, fossid-webapp-client, spdx-utils, more to come
  - SemVer for these, 1.0.0 as first version number
  - Try with clearly-defined first
- Introduce ChangeLogs
- Aim for an ORT 1.0.0 release by Q1 2021
- Think about providing migration tools on breaking changes
- No Docker image publishing yet

#### Open-sourcing HERE's curation data

- No update on that topic as @fviernau had no time / is currently on sick leave
- HERE working on approval

#### Cleanup of remote branches

- This [script](https://github.com/sschuberth/dev-scripts/blob/master/git/git-branch-owners) might help to identify own branches

#### Align the behavior of reporters

- Remove Documenter from README, functionality will be in Reporter
- Ensure all reporters handle various basics
  - Hard to enforce technically, maybe better come up with guidelines
- Static HTML reporter does not show resolved issues at all (?) -> @tsteenbe will file an issue
  - Maybe remove the Static reporter in the mid term

#### Next TSC meeting

- January 14, 2021, 10.00 o'clock
