# Meeting Minutes for August 5, 2020

## Agenda

### General

TS: Add Llink to Governance repo to ORT, closing https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/5
SS: Looked into using free GSuite for hosting an email service for ORT - need to look for another email solution.

Action item for TS: Fill ticket for receiving email only solution e.g. email-address -> TSC mailing list.

### Technical 

Handling of BOM artifacts 

https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/2897

MN: Need a way to tell ORT that for an artifact there is no source artifact
SS: Cheap workaround was to scan the POM artifacts
MN: Not so nice solution
SS: Scanning POM is still valid as POM file may contain full license file
MN: Check ORT source code using a curation to scan just the POM
SS: It should just work and have an automatic fallback
MN: Remove auto fallback as using the automatic fallback would hide issues.
SS: We need to look at the packaging field and if it's pom we should not download sources. See also http://maven.apache.org/pom.html#packaging

TSC: Agree on implementing support for packaging field in the Maven analyzer.


Provide means to address `unmappable declared licenses` issues

https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/2898

SS: Why do we need a new mapping
MN: Do not overwrite declared license
MN: Would it not be better to also add a declared copyright holder
TS: Yes
SS and MN: ORT could detected declared copyright holders and then if we have a declared_copyright_holder field we could writ it out to that.

TSC: Agrees to replace declared_licenses with declared_license_mapping and use the curations.yml as the location 
Add a way to "declared_copyright_holder" field (name TBD)

MN: Set up a "Verein" for ORT?
SS: Probably not the best organization to create a reliable impression and attract commercial users.

### Next Meeting

Martin: Future meetings should always start with review of open action points.

TSC agrees to schedule the next TSC meeting on October 23, 2020 at 1 PM.
