# Meeting Minutes for April 30, 2020

## Agenda

### General

Thomas has created an new private repository (https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance) with the ORT's charter which is basically LF's standard charter with some minor changes. The repository will be made public once we sort out the governance basics of our project.

As the charter is a template there are a couple of open items we as core maintainer have to decide on:

1. Do we want to make any changes to ORT's charter? 

Thomas read out the charter in the meeting and all TSC members collaborated and agreed on below changes:
https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/commit/3e12ed16e8d2d761705d5e08605ead0eafb4fc79

Action point for Thomas:
Reach out to Linux Foundation to get their approval for changing ORT's charter.

2. What changes were made to create ORT's charter from ACT template?

Thomas: One of the things that was removed from the template charter was to publish the docs under CC-BY-4.0, removed this at the time to facilite the transition to LF but do we want a different license for the docs?

Thomas: It seems some contributors prefer not to contribute to docs under Apache-2.0 as it not a 'good' license for docs.
Sebastian: Would not object to having a different license for our docs/
TSC: Agrees to not change license for docs until diff between ORT's charter versus ACT template has been made available to all TSC members.

Action point for Thomas:
Visualize the diff of ORT's charter versus the ACT template and make it available to all TSC members.

3. How do we record meetings and decisions? Are all OK with using Markdown files in the ort-governance repository?

TSC agreed to record meetings decisions in Markdown files with the ort-governance repository.

4. When and how do we meet? Note that all meetings per charter 2b "intended to be open to the public"

When:

Martin: Propose a general meeting every 4-6 weeks, any preference for a fixed day of the month?
TSC agrees monthly meeting, every fist Thursday of the Month. Next meeting will be on Thursday May 7th, 2020 at 11 AM.

How:

Many tools available for conf calls Google Meet / Hangouts, Zoom, etc but Zoom seems after testing to works the best.
TSC agrees to use Zoom for ORT meetings

Discussion within TSC how besides Zoom having an 'contact@oss-review-toolkit.org' email address and Slack subscription would be useful.

Sebastian: Might have a solution GSuite that we can re-use for an ORT mailbox/mailing list. Will follow up
Thomas: A Zoom I can probably get from LF easily as commonly used but Slack may be more difficult, likely need to wait till ACT is fully up and running to get the funding.

Action point for Sebastian:
Propose a solution to set up a 'contact@oss-review-toolkit.org' email address which can be used by all TSC members.

Action point for Thomas:
Reach out to LF to request a Zoom channel for ORT meetings (incl. TSC meetings).

5. Section 2f of ORT's charter states that the core maintainers referred to as TSC may elect a chair / project lead. LF has asked us appoint 2 people as ORT will get two votes in ACT

The TSC agrees to nominate below listed persons as its ACT voting members.

1. Thomas Steenbergen
2. Sebastian Schuberth

Action point for Thomas:
Add a CONTRIBUTING.md to ort-governance repository to publicly state above decision.

6. Does TSC wish to define the role of its chair? e.g. meetings, communications with LF, etc.?

TSC agrees to not have a TSC chair, but Thomas will continue his role as spokesperson / representative.

Action point for Thomas:
Add a CONTRIBUTING.md to ort-governance repository to publicly state above decision.

7. Define requirements for the promotion of Contributors to Committer status. What are our criteria?

The TSC agrees any TSC member can propose candidate with decision being made via TSC decision.

### Technical

No technical discussions were held as part of this meeting.