# Meeting Minutes for July 1, 2020

## Agenda

### General

#### Collaboration with FOSSID

First blog post about collaboration published yesterday.
Thomas gives update on future plans for collaboration.

Sebastian: Will they start contributing code to ORT, e.g. scanner integration?

Thomas: Starting slowly, FOSSID will provide access to a copy of FOSSID. We need
    to run it on our own, because they have no SAAS offering.

Current status of integration: FOSS ID shows results of the analyzer as a flat
    list.

#### How to share secrets in the team?

Thomas: We need a way to share secrets between team members.

AP Sebastian: Search for options like LastPass, or a hosted drive like Dropbox
    that works on Linux as well.

### Technical

#### SPDX Package Manifest

We need a way to provide data to ORT about dependencies of unmanaged projects.
For this SPDX package manifests could be used:
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/439

AP Sebastian: Try integration of the SPDX package manifest with the analyzer
(see [#2838]).

Sebastian: The format is missing a way to classify the dependencies, e.g. is it
    a third-party dependency or company-internal, closed- or open-source, or
    requires a license. Also the type of application, e.g. is it a service or
    a library, was the package modified, and so on.

Thomas: Please add the requirements to the ticket.

---

Thomas: Currently custom data is added to the ORT result using jq. There should
    be an easy way to add this custom data on the command line when calling ORT,
    like it's possible for the reporter options. (TODO: Make GitHub ticket)

---

Frank: Question regarding optionss 1 and 2. How should detected licenses be
    associated with the packages defined in the spdx.yml? Seems obvious in
    option 1, but not in 2.

Sebastian: Benefit of option 2 is that no "Unmanaged" project is required.

Frank: The potential problem is that detected licenses of packages which are
    part of the same file tree need to be associated to the packages, not
    the project. This needs to be solved in the implementation.

Sebastian: Correctly matching this would probably require to implement
    scan-by-repository first.

Martin: Problem with git-repo was the blocker why scan-by-repository is not
    already implemented.

---

Thomas: What would happen if there are multiple spdx.yml in the file tree?
    -> Needs to be solved later, e.g. when implementing it.

Sebastian: Should the filenames be limited to project.spdx.yml and
    package.spdx.yml?

Thomas: It was actually requested to allow other names, like e.g. curl.spex.yml.

Frank: For projects that support multiple langauges in one directory it could
    be useful to allow e.g. protobuf.java.xml, protobuf.c.yml.

## Update on action points

### Copyright headers

Slowly making progress, original copyright holders need to sign off to formally
agree that they are ok to change the copyrights.

### Jenkins instance

Sebastian: Does the Linux Foundation provide any infrastructure?

Thomas: No, we have to set it up ourselves. Maybe Jenkins Foundation could
    provide one.

### Next Meeting

Martin: Future meetings should always start with review of open action points.

TSC agrees to schedule the next TSC meeting on August 5th, 2020 at 10am CEST.

[#2838]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/2838
