# Meeting Minutes for February 25, 2021

## Attendees

@fviernau, @mnonnenmacher, @sschuberth, @tsteenbe

## Updates on open tasks

### Charter changes [#2]

Charter update is finally merged [#16].

### Changing ORT's Copyright Headers [#6]

@tsteenbe to ask permission from HERE to approve copyright change, Bosch already approved.

### Use LFX Security Platform [#13]

[LFX Insights] and [Security] onboarding has started.

## Agenda

### Snyk

@tsteenbe gives introducing Snyk, setup accounts for all TSC members.
	- Does seem to require creating projects which is unfortunate, @tsteenbe to investigate.

### Breaking Changes

Are we fine with how breaking changes are handled?

- We need to start doing releases to better manage breaking changes.
- Teams agrees on not giving guarantees for backwards compatibility. In general breaking changes should be made backward
  compatible, but it's a tradeoff between effort and ease of upgrading for users.
- Should the ORT result format be stable?
	- Team agrees on no, we need to be able to do changes, e.g. for performance optimizations. The ORT result files
	  should not be treated as a standard, instead other formats like SPDX or CycloneDX should be used for data
	  exchange.

### Releases

We should start doing releases to attract more users and potential contributors. Team decides to start doing releases
after some upcoming breaking changes. Making releases can increase development effort, to mitigate this we do not plan
to provide support for older releases.

- We need to define the release strategy regarding stability and document it publicly [#20].
- Decide if Calver matches our project better than Semver [#18].

### Logos

We should try to get users to add their logos to ORT to publicly show who is using ORT [#17].

### Developer Meetings

- We need an account to host ORT developer meetings. Can we get the LF Zoom account or a paid subscription of another
tool? Try Jitsi if we don't get access to the LF Zoom account [#19].

### Miscellaneous Updates

#### hhpartners.fi

@tsteenbe: At FOSSDEM hhpartners.fi presented a plan that is basically rebuilding ORT:
- https://github.com/doubleopen-project/doubleopen/blob/master/spdx-to-ort-research.md
- Plan is to instead make a conversion from SPDX to ORT result to be able to use the evaluator and reporter.
- The reason why the try to rebuild ORT seems to be required Yocto support. ORT developers were not approached to
  discuss if integrating this in ORT would have been an alternative.

#### Canvasslabs.com

@tsteenbe: Canvasslabs.com gave access to tool, it's a scanner engine using ORT.

#### SPDX Document Support

@sschuberth: Bosch plans some breaking changes for SPDX Document support, would this break things for HERE?
- Leads to discussion about the different use cases for SPDX support at Bosch and HERE. Bosch currently uses
  project.spdx.yml while HERE uses package.spdx.yml. Bosch will start using package.spdx.yml as well.
- Martin: Both use cases are currently untested, tests should be added if they are used in production.

#### SW360

- @tsteenbe: What's the plan with SW360?
- @sschuberth: People want to use the ORT analyzer to push data to SW360. That's why the SW360 community is looking into
  how the integration works.

[#2]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/2
[#6]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/6
[#13]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/13
[#16]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/pull/16
[#17]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/17
[#18]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/18
[#19]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/19
[#20]: https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/20
[LFX Insights]: https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/act%2Fort/dashboard
[Security]: https://security.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/
