# Meeting Minutes for February 25, 2021

## Attendees

@fviernau, @MarcelBochtler, @mnonnenmacher, @sschuberth, @tsteenbe

## Extending the TSC

On proposal of @mnonnenmacher the TSC members unanimously vote for adding Marcel Bochtler (@MarcelBochtler) as a new TSC
member and Marcel accepts the vote.

## Update from participants on future plans for ORT

### Bosch

We will soon start working on an ORT server backend. The main requirements are:
- Horizontal scalability to run tasks like the analyzer and scanner in parallel.
- Integration with enterprise authentication.
- API to trigger jobs and request results.
- Backed by database, likely PostgreSQL.
- Should be cloud agnostic.
- Code will be open source as soon as possible.

Sebastian suggests that the CLI could later on be adapted to work with a local server in the background.

### EPAM

Upcoming topics for Frank:
- GoMod support improvements.
- Publish orth bash script repository.
- SPDX support: Update to 2.3 and later to 3.0.
- Package configurations: Helper command to generate path excludes for common directories like "docs".

Thomas focuses on:
- Make ORT more consumable, biggest feedback from users is difficult usability and onramp.
- Present ORT in the LF ospology live meetups: https://github.com/todogroup/ospology/blob/main/ospology-live/framework.md
- Find an additional maintainer for the web app reporter.

### Sebastian

- Future plans are as already said in last ORT dev meeting.
- Focus topics:
  - Usability improvements, e.g. by improving the ORT Workbench.

## What makes ORT hard to use?

- Difficult CI integration
- Missing documentation
- Make more self-explanatory
- Reduce complexity of configuration
- Missing landing page showing the key features
- Getting started is outdated

Sebastian suggests that features from the helper-cli could be transferred to the ORT Workbench to make them more easily
accessible.

## Topics left for next meeting

- Continue discussion on usability.
- How to publish commercial support options for ORT.
- Open ORT governance issues.
