# Meeting Minutes for June 20, 2022

## Attendees

@fviernau, @MarcelBochtler, @mnonnenmacher, @sschuberth, @tsteenbe

## Open Issues

* [Replace the copyright statements](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/6)
  * @MarcelBochtler will scan the ORT project (without dependencies) with ORT and ScanCode as a project scanner to get the list of merged Copyright statements.
  * That list will be the basis for a `NOTICE` file which will become the central place for all Copyright statements.
  * Current Copyright statements will be replaced by inception year of the file as noted in the Git history (so no year range) and the generalized Copyright holder "The ORT Project Authors".
  * By now see https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/pull/5472.
* [Use Fiscal Hosts for receiving sponsorship](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/issues/14)
  * We should set up GitHub's org sponsoring for general "thank you" kind of payments.
  * Reconsider using OpenCollective as a fiscal host as proposed by GitHub.
  * We need to be transparent where any money goes:
    * Meeting minutes
    * TSC decision

## Commercial Support

* We should highlight the possibility to get commercial support to not "scare off" corporates from adopting ORT.
* Probably introduce a separate `SUPPORT.md` to not overload `README.md`.
  * @tsteenbe will create a PR in the ORT main repo to add a `SUPPORT.md`.
* Discussion about criteria to become listed as a party that offers commercial support:
  * Open Chain certified? -> Probably asking too much.
  * Maybe better (as it will encourage contributions): Be a past contributor (also non-code to docs or config).
  * And / or by vote in the TSC.

## Other Topics

* Postponed again to the next meeting on 2022-07-04:
  * Make ORT more user friendly.
  * ORT project ways of working.
