# Meeting Minutes for July 4, 2022

## Attendees

@fviernau, @MarcelBochtler, @mnonnenmacher, @sschuberth, @tsteenbe

## Centralizing copyright statements

### Discussion

- Marcel gave a quick update on his PR (https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/pull/5472)
- Agreed again on listing the copyright holders alphabetically, because the order should
  not imply any other meaning.
- General approach discussion
  - We centralize because file granularity is too much hazzle
  - We acknowledge / accept that loosing file granularity will lead to
    over-reporting in some cases: e.g. when extracting a module to a separate
    repository. Reconstructing file granular information about copyrights from
    Git history may work. It has the pitfall that the author of the commit
    is not necessarily the copyright holder.
  - TSC: We promise to do our best to get copyrights right
- 'CONTRIBUTING.md' should say something like:
  - You'll be mentioned as "The ORT authors"
  - If you want to be mentioned explicitly, add yourself the NOTICE file

### Conclusions

- Merge the NOTICE file as-is (in https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/pull/5472)
- 'CONTRIBUTING.md' must be updated to say that "copied code needs an entry in the dep5 file"
- ORT copyright statement:
  - Limit copyright year to just the inception year (no year range)
  - Should have a suffix containing a link to the NOTICE file on GitHub
- All TSC member to review and approve the PRs for this copyright refactoring
- '.resuse/dep5' must have entries only for copied code

### Action items

- Thomas to announce copyright change on slack
- Thomas to add the centralized copyrights topic to the agenda of an ORT developer meeting
- Thomas to update CONTRIBUTING.md as mentioned above
- Thomas to prepare update for the '.resuse/dep5' file
- Sebastian to do the big code change provided there is no E.T.A.
- All to have the next TSC meeting on 22nd of August
