# Meeting Minutes for November 4, 2025

## Attendees
- Frank Viernau
- Marcel Bochtler
- Martin Nonnenmacher
- Sebastian Schuberth
- Thomas Steenbergen

## Summary of Action Items
- Sebastian: Schedule the GitHub Teams cleanup meeting.
- Governance Repository: Add list of committers (in addition to TSC members).
- Personal follow-up: Marcel and Martin will have a conversation with Marcel Kurzmann.
- Bosch: Hold an internal meeting clarifying that TSC meetings cannot be substituted by managers; ensure minutes are published (not only emailed).
- Grants: Ensure future grant proposals include budget for reviewer effort.
- Inspectors (Python / NuGet):
  - Add additional contributors within November (Thomas to drive).
  - Thomas: Announce maintainer invitation plan in the ORT Community meeting on Nov 6.
  - Review progress and decide on further action at the Dec 2 TSC meeting.
- Funding transparency: Provide written overview of the SOSEF / STA funding flow.
- Maintainership: Revisit potential Python Inspector maintainers at the December meeting.

## Follow-up from Previous Meeting
A meeting to address GitHub Teams cleanup was agreed but not scheduled. Sebastian will schedule it.
TSC members were added to the governance repository; committers still need to be listed.

## Governance Process Transparency
Concern raised (Martin) about recent governance-related meeting in Amsterdam lacking prior transparent announcement and published minutes.
Discussion:
- Initial drafting before public sharing was defended (Thomas) as common in other OSS projects.
- Martin: Early visibility enables broader participation.
- Thomas: A prepared announcement is expected before opening broader input.
- Martin: Some governance topics (beyond Business Group planning) were discussed without inviting all relevant stakeholders.
- Thomas: Invitation oversight attributed to Bosch coordination.
- Bosch internal clarification is required, that managers cannot replace TSC members; minutes must be openly published.
- Martin cited Charter Section 4E: Outputs should be openly and easily visible.
Consensus: Aim for maximal openness; recognition that not all cases may be fully open (Thomas). Further personal follow-up with Marcel Kurzmann is planned.

## Sovereign Tech Agency / SOSEF Funding Integration
Thomas: German government funding available; Erlang Ecosystem Foundation applied to integrate Erlang build system with ORT and improve documentation.
Expected contributors: Jonatan Männchen, Luca Succi, Peer Stritzinger, Barbara Chassoul, Adam Bukolt, Mirjam Friesen, Thomas.
Sebastian: Significant review workload; reviewer effort should be funded.
Funding flow (Thomas): Government agency → Peer Stritzinger GmbH (prime) → OSSYN (subcontractor) → Double Open / Adam Bukolt.
Action: Provide clearer written funding overview. Include review budget in future grants.

## Python and NuGet Inspectors Status
Issues: Slow code reviews and delayed releases.
Planned mitigation (Thomas): Add more contributors to the repositories in November; AboutCode expects substantial breaking changes during onboarding.
Risks (Sebastian): Existing forks (Cariad, Zeiss) may diverge; temporary fork in oss-review-toolkit org could help alignment; releases may need to be published (e.g. PyPI) or bundled into ORT distribution.
Timing:
- Contributor additions target: November.
- Review governance for merging existing forks once maintainers are in place.
Perspectives:
- Martin: Accept slight delay to enable a sustainable setup.
- Sebastian: Prior delays reduce confidence that waiting solves issues.
- Deadline proposal (Thomas): Evaluate status at December TSC.
Maintainership:
- Marcel: Cannot commit to Python Inspector maintenance this or next year.
- Martin: Helio expressed interest; revisit in December.
- Invitation principle (Thomas): Significant contributors will be invited.
- Timeline:
  - Announcement of invitation approach: Nov 6 ORT Community meeting.
  - Decision point: Dec 2 TSC meeting (assess if further action required).
