# TSC Meeting Minutes for December 2, 2025

## Attendees

- Frank Viernau (@fviernau)
- Marcel Bochtler (@MarcelBochtler)
- Martin Nonnenmacher (@mnonnenmacher)
- Sebastian Schuberth (@sschuberth)
- Thomas Steenbergen (@tsteenbe)

## Agenda

Agenda items were previously collected at https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/TSC-Meeting#2025-12-02.

1. TSC meeting minutes for 2025-11-04
   Clarified open comment on https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort-governance/pull/41.

2. Discuss "ORT Bom" Proposal (https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/10182)
   Consensus:
   - project `vcs` should be removed.
   - For dependencies, the user should be free to define either only the `id`, only the `purl`, or both.
   - Overall format as outlined by https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/issues/10182#issuecomment-3570016746
     is agreed (with above modifications). Only tiny stuff left for discussion in the PR.
   - Someone from Bosch will update the proposal accordingly.

3. Implement CI/CD integration for Forgio

   - Consensus to add a new dedicated code repository.
   - @Thomas: Please add initial code owners file from the beginning. 
     Not including arbitrary people, but from https://github.com/orgs/oss-review-toolkit/teams/committers.

4: Discuss: Should we add individual contributors to ORT's NOTICE?
   - Sebastian: It's not feasible to retrospectively add all from Git history.
   - Martin: No one wants to do that work. We would have to contact all contributors to find out if
     they did their contribution on behalf of a company or on their own.
   - Consensus:
     - Allow for adding individual contributors who made significant contributions.
     - Individuals responsibility, e.g. Individuals can make a PR to add themselves.
     - Add a new section for indivuals at the bottom, to keep these separated from companies.

5: Re-schedule next TSC meeting
   Consensus: Meeting on 6th of January won't take place. TSC to find a new date.