# TSC Meeting Minutes for October 14, 2025

## Attendees

- Frank Viernau (@fviernau)
- Marcel Bochtler (@MarcelBochtler)
- Martin Nonnenmacher (@mnonnenmacher)
- Sebastian Schuberth (@sschuberth)
- Thomas Steenbergen (@tsteenbe)

## Agenda

Agenda item were previously collected at https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/TSC-Meeting#2025-10-14.

1. Clean up teams defined for the organization

- @sschuberh explains the problem with using github teams as code owners.
- @mnonnenmacher adds that team names are not in sync with role names as defined in the governance document.
- The "Contributors" team was removed from [orthw-python](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/orthw-python) on consensus.
- A discussion about how to map rules defined in the governance document GitHub teams / roles starts.
  - The discussion is taking too long without any conclusions and was cancelled.
  - @sschuberth will schedule a separate meeting dedicated to that topic.

2. Publicly list TSC members (and committers)

- Consensus that this should be done.
- @tsteenbe will create a PR to add the TSC to the README.
- Postponing to add committers until the teams / roles meeting has happened.

3. Who is the "series manager" mentioned in the charter?

- @tsteenbe says it's Mike Dolan.
- @tsteenbe will create a PR to add the [series manager](mailto:manager@lfprojects.org) to the README.

4. Recap of initial "Business Working Group" meeting without notification of all TSC members beforehand

- Consensus that this should not happen again, and that TSC members cannot be substituted by the companies they (currently) work for.
- TSC membership is bound to the person, not to the employer.
- @mnonnenmacher and @MarcelBochtler to follow-up Bosch-internally

5. Unclarities about responsibilities for CI projects

- @mnonnenmacher: Who responds to issues and reviews PRs?
- @sschuberth: The expectation is that these are primarily the project creators.
- But project creators do not seem to have the time.
- @mnonnenmacher will set up `CODEOWNERS` files to assign reviewers by username.

6. Make a decision how to continue with python-inspector and nuget-inspector

- @mnonnenmacher presents issues that show a lack of python-inspector and nuget-inspector maintenance.
- @MarcelBochtler adds that reviews and releases are only made on demand when pushing hard.
- @tsteenbe holds out the prospect of AboutCode governance changes to improve the situation.
- @sschuberth proposes to bring this up again in a wider audience / the community meeting.

## Summary of Action Items

- @sschuberth to schedule a meeting for cleaning up GitHub teams in accordance with the governance roles.
- @tsteenbe to add the TSC members and series manager to the README.
- @mnonnenmacher and @MarcelBochtler to follow-up Bosch-internally about the Business WG meeting in Amsterdam
- @mnonnenmacher to set up `CODEOWNERS` files for CI projects.
